=pod

=encoding utf-8

=for :stopwords Chris Weyl GitHub attribute's isa one's rwp

=head1 NAME

MooseX::AttributeShortcuts - Shorthand for common attribute options

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.018 of MooseX::AttributeShortcuts - released January 09, 2013 as part of MooseX-AttributeShortcuts.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    package Some::Class;

    use Moose;
    use MooseX::AttributeShortcuts;

    # same as:
    #   is => 'ro', lazy => 1, builder => '_build_foo'
    has foo => (is => 'lazy');

    # same as: is => 'ro', writer => '_set_foo'
    has foo => (is => 'rwp');

    # same as: is => 'ro', builder => '_build_bar'
    has bar => (is => 'ro', builder => 1);

    # same as: is => 'ro', clearer => 'clear_bar'
    has bar => (is => 'ro', clearer => 1);

    # same as: is => 'ro', predicate => 'has_bar'
    has bar => (is => 'ro', predicate => 1);

    # works as you'd expect for "private": predicate => '_has_bar'
    has _bar => (is => 'ro', predicate => 1);

    # extending? Use the "Shortcuts" trait alias
    extends 'Some::OtherClass';
    has '+bar' => (traits => [Shortcuts], builder => 1, ...);

    # or...
    package Some::Other::Class;

    use Moose;
    use MooseX::AttributeShortcuts -writer_prefix => '_';

    # same as: is => 'ro', writer => '_foo'
    has foo => (is => 'rwp');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Ever find yourself repeatedly specifying writers and builders, because there's
no good shortcut to specifying them?  Sometimes you want an attribute to have
a read-only public interface, but a private writer.  And wouldn't it be easier
to just say "builder => 1" and have the attribute construct the canonical
"_build_$name" builder name for you?

This package causes an attribute trait to be applied to all attributes defined
to the using class.  This trait extends the attribute option processing to
handle the above variations.

=for Pod::Coverage init_meta

=head1 USAGE

This package automatically applies an attribute metaclass trait.  Unless you
want to change the defaults, you can ignore the talk about "prefixes" below.

=head1 EXTENDING A CLASS

If you're extending a class and trying to extend its attributes as well,
you'll find out that the trait is only applied to attributes defined locally
in the class.  This package exports a trait shortcut function "Shortcuts" that
will help you apply this to the extended attribute:

    has '+something' => (traits => [Shortcuts], ...);

=head1 PREFIXES

We accept two parameters on the use of this module; they impact how builders
and writers are named.

=head2 -writer_prefix

    use MooseX::::AttributeShortcuts -writer_prefix => 'prefix';

The default writer prefix is '_set_'.  If you'd prefer it to be something
else (say, '_'), this is where you'd do that.

=head2 -builder_prefix

    use MooseX::::AttributeShortcuts -builder_prefix => 'prefix';

The default builder prefix is '_build_', as this is what lazy_build does, and
what people in general recognize as build methods.

=head1 NEW ATTRIBUTE OPTIONS

Unless specified here, all options defined by L<Moose::Meta::Attribute> and
L<Class::MOP::Attribute> remain unchanged.

Want to see additional options?  Ask, or better yet, fork on GitHub and send
a pull request. If the shortcuts you're asking for already exist in L<Moo> or
L<Mouse> or elsewhere, please note that as it will carry significant weight.

For the following, "$name" should be read as the attribute name; and the
various prefixes should be read using the defaults.

=head2 is => 'rwp'

Specifying C<is =E<gt> 'rwp'> will cause the following options to be set:

    is     => 'ro'
    writer => "_set_$name"

=head2 is => 'lazy'

Specifying C<is =E<gt> 'lazy'> will cause the following options to be set:

    is       => 'ro'
    builder  => "_build_$name"
    lazy     => 1

B<NOTE:> Since 0.009 we no longer set C<init_arg =E<gt> undef> if no C<init_arg>
is explicitly provided.  This is a change made in parallel with L<Moo>, based
on a large number of people surprised that lazy also made one's C<init_def>
undefined.

=head2 is => 'lazy', default => ...

Specifying C<is =E<gt> 'lazy'> and a default will cause the following options to be
set:

    is       => 'ro'
    lazy     => 1
    default  => ... # as provided

That is, if you specify C<is =E<gt> 'lazy'> and also provide a C<default>, then
we won't try to set a builder, as well.

=head2 builder => 1

Specifying C<builder =E<gt> 1> will cause the following options to be set:

    builder => "_build_$name"

=head2 clearer => 1

Specifying C<clearer =E<gt> 1> will cause the following options to be set:

    clearer => "clear_$name"

or, if your attribute name begins with an underscore:

    clearer => "_clear$name"

(that is, an attribute named "_foo" would get "_clear_foo")

=head2 predicate => 1

Specifying C<predicate =E<gt> 1> will cause the following options to be set:

    predicate => "has_$name"

or, if your attribute name begins with an underscore:

    predicate => "_has$name"

(that is, an attribute named "_foo" would get "_has_foo")

=head2 trigger => 1

Specifying C<trigger =E<gt> 1> will cause the attribute to be created with a trigger
that calls a named method in the class with the options passed to the trigger.
By default, the method name the trigger calls is the name of the attribute
prefixed with "_trigger_".

e.g., for an attribute named "foo" this would be equivalent to:

    trigger => sub { shift->_trigger_foo(@_) }

For an attribute named "_foo":

    trigger => sub { shift->_trigger__foo(@_) }

This naming scheme, in which the trigger is always private, is the same as the
builder naming scheme (just with a different prefix).

=head2 builder => sub { ... }

Passing a coderef to builder will cause that coderef to be installed in the
class this attribute is associated with the name you'd expect, and
C<builder =E<gt> 1> to be set.

e.g., in your class,

    has foo => (is => 'ro', builder => sub { 'bar!' });

...is effectively the same as...

    has foo => (is => 'ro', builder => '_build_foo');
    sub _build_foo { 'bar!' }

=head2 isa => ..., constraint => sub { ... }

Specifying the constraint option with a coderef will cause a new type
constraint to be created, with the parent type being the type specified in the
C<isa> option and the constraint being the coderef supplied here.

For example, only integers greater than 10 will pass this attribute's type
constraint:

    # value must be an integer greater than 10 to pass the constraint
    has thinger => (
        isa        => 'Int',
        constraint => sub { $_ > 10 },
        # ...
    );

Note that if you supply a constraint, you must also provide an C<isa>.

=head2 isa => ..., constraint => sub { ... }, coerce => 1

Supplying a constraint and asking for coercion will "Just Work", that is, any
coercions that the C<isa> type has will still work.

For example, let's say that you're using the C<File> type constraint from
L<MooseX::Types::Path::Class>, and you want an additional constraint that the
file must exist:

    has thinger => (
        is         => 'ro',
        isa        => File,
        constraint => sub { !! $_->stat },
        coerce     => 1,
    );

C<thinger> will correctly coerce the string "/etc/passwd" to a
C<Path::Class:File>, and will only accept the coerced result as a value if
the file exists.

=head1 AUTHOR

Chris Weyl <cweyl@alumni.drew.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2011 by Chris Weyl.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 2.1, February 1999

